# BIOMD0000000182: MODEL8609366518

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000182.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000182.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Neves2008 - Role of cell shape and size in controlling intracellular
signalling

The role of cell shape and size in the flow of spatial information from the
cell surface receptor to downstream components within the cell has been
studied on the Î²-adrenergic receptor to MAPK-signalling network.

This model is described in the article:

[Cell shape and negative links in regulatory motifs together control spatial
information flow in signaling
networks.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/18485874)

Neves SR, Tsokas P, Sarkar A, Grace EA, Rangamani P, Taubenfeld SM, Alberini
CM, Schaff JC, Blitzer RD, Moraru II, Iyengar R

Cell. 2008, 133(4):666-680

Abstract:

The role of cell size and shape in controlling local intracellular signaling
reactions, and how this spatial information originates and is propagated, is
not well understood. We have used partial differential equations to model the
flow of spatial information from the beta-adrenergic receptor to MAPK1,2
through the cAMP/PKA/B-Raf/MAPK1,2 network in neurons using real geometries.
The numerical simulations indicated that cell shape controls the dynamics of
local biochemical activity of signal-modulated negative regulators, such as
phosphodiesterases and protein phosphatases within regulatory loops to
determine the size of microdomains of activated signaling components. The
model prediction that negative regulators control the flow of spatial
information to downstream components was verified experimentally in rat
hippocampal slices. These results suggest a mechanism by which cellular
geometry, the presence of regulatory loops with negative regulators, and key
reaction rates all together control spatial information transfer and
microdomain characteristics within cells.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL8609366518](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL8609366518) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


